## Preliminary analysis Write-up
# Introduction
Population studies are among the most ancient methods of examining populations’ size, structure, and development over time. They are the earliest statistical examinations to explore mortality, fertility, and their associative factors such as poverty, employment, culture, migration, and religion. Population’s projections estimate the future population and depend on forecasts of various factors such as climate change, health services, education, and future well-being. It is difficult to make accurate projections of the populations to which researchers result to statistical models that account for economic, technological, political, and technological forces to understand population growth factors. According to the available statistics from the world bank, most of the population growth in the next 30 years will come from Africa. With such significant statements at hand, the paper recognizes the limited statistics available from the world bank database, particularly for middle-income and underdeveloped countries. Also, most of the data available are significantly in estimates between the last two to ten years, limiting the quality of projections made into the future. Another challenge to exploring such big data is the limitations of the research problem, as most studies take a narrowed-down approach. However, instead of focusing on the limitations of the possibilities of such qualitative research, the paper holds an open and flexible research question that allows it to explore varied and rich data.
