Archive/paper.md, before:

---
title: Global Population Trends and Projections (Team 6)
date: "November 22 2021"
author: Devki Desai, Priyanka Moorthy, Paul Mello, Vamsi Chalamolu, San José State University

header-includes: |
  \usepackage{booktabs}
  \usepackage{caption}
---

# Abstract

# Introduction
Population studies are among the most ancient methods of examining populations’ size, structure, and development over time. Researchers have applied statistical examinations on this data to explore mortality, fertility, and their associative factors such as poverty, employment, culture, migration, and religion. Helping them paint a better picture of the modern population and make some predictions about where the population is trending. Many factors play an important role in these predictions including climate change, health services, education, and future well-being. 
Using the current World Bank population estimation data set we aim to perform an Exploratory Data Analysis to shed light on trends, factors, and patterns we see evident in the data. By focusing our attention to modeling and understanding the trends present in the data we allow ourselves to explore a rich sea of information.

# Methods

# Comparisons

# Example Analysis

# Conclusions


# References

Commit message:

Write-up for methods in preliminary analysis

Archive/paper.md, after:

---
title: Global Population Trends and Projections (Team 6)
date: "November 22 2021"
author: Devki Desai, Priyanka Moorthy, Paul Mello, Vamsi Chalamolu, San José State University

header-includes: |
  \usepackage{booktabs}
  \usepackage{caption}
---

# Abstract

# Introduction
Population studies are among the most ancient methods of examining populations’ size, structure, and development over time. Researchers have applied statistical examinations on this data to explore mortality, fertility, and their associative factors such as poverty, employment, culture, migration, and religion. Helping them paint a better picture of the modern population and make some predictions about where the population is trending. Many factors play an important role in these predictions including climate change, health services, education, and future well-being. 
Using the current World Bank population estimation data set we aim to perform an Exploratory Data Analysis to shed light on trends, factors, and patterns we see evident in the data. By focusing our attention to modeling and understanding the trends present in the data we allow ourselves to explore a rich sea of information.

# Methods
The idea behind implementing this project is to perform an Exploratory Data Analysis, and figure out some trends that may present across the global population dataset presented by the World Bank. We are currently exploring two methods to project possible trends in the dataset - 
1. Regression
2. Clustering correlation

## Regression:
We propose a method where we analyze the growth in population in individual countries (Possible options: Average growth, Total growth, Growth by a specific year). Then, we would try and correctly identify which continent the specific country belongs to, based on the Continent's respective metrics. This model includes a Prediction Accuracy (FAT 220 Confusion Matrix). According to our assumption, the level of accuracy would be around 60%, given the huge number of countries.

## Clustering correlation
We propose a method where we can try and gauge if a continent can be determined based on its geography. We can try to see if the metrics such as Average growth, Total growth, Growth by a specific year for countries can help us correctly identify what continent the specific country belongs to. Another relation that can be mapped would be gauging what countries are closely related, based on these metrics. Clustering can help determine this correlation and help gauge the similarity in growth in population for specific countries. 

# Comparisons

# Example Analysis

# Conclusions


# References
